PLATFORM INTRODUCTION:


•	A Remote Health Monitoring System consists of three main components such as data sensing module, data processing module and data communication module. The data sensing module consists of temperature sensor and heart beat sensor which senses the changes in the respective physiological parameters. The information is then conveyed to the  microcontroller of data processing module. The data processing module analyzes the input signals. The noise signals are filtered and if the processed value exceeds than normal value, medicine which is to be given as a first aid for patient is displayed on the personal computer using GUI.
•	 The communication module is used to transfer data between person and equipment. This has basic components such as the message, the sender, the receiver, the medium and the protocol by which the message is sent to the doctor through mobile phones by information gateway for the treatment to be taken.
•	The aim of this proposed appproach is to design an automatic wireless health monitoring system. The objective is to monitor the temperature and heartbeat of the patient’s body which should be displayed to the doctor using NRF technology. 
•	In hospitals, the monitoring of the patients’ health is done by the staff members of the hospital. The temperature and heart rate of the patient’s body is checked constantly and a record of it is kept. The required components used in this system include a power supply, ATmega328 microcontroller, a temperature sensor, an RF TX, an RX module and an LCD display. The ATmega328 microcontroller is used as a CPU for monitoring the temperature of the patient’s body. These types of communication will only work for shorter distance and duration. 
•	A study was done to determine the types of vital signs that are routinely measured for a patient by doctor.  The vital signs are body temperature, pulse rate and detection of fall. Body tissues mass-weighted average temperature and skin temperature are measured. Direct temperature measurement of peripheral tissue is more complex than core temperature measurement. Vital signals of patient health can be monitored by biomedical system .

